moving forward v6 three litre overhead
violet we're going to go through the
steps and replacing the water pump
before performing a cooling system
repair is recommended clutch the cooling
system prior to installing any new parts
with the cooling system flushed and
drain will disconnect the negative
battery cable before beginning the
repair removing the hood strut is not
necessary but will ease in accessing the
water pump area as part of the flushing
procedure we've removed and cleaned the
coolant recovery tank you will have to
remove this to gain access to the water
pump before starting your repair you
always want to make sure you're working
with a cool engine before removing the
drive belt loosen the water pump pulley
bolts remove the motor mount stress
and drive belt remove Elden eighter from
its bracket and set to the side
completely remove the motor mount
bracket and remove the idler pulley
remove the belt tensioner and the air
conditioner support bracket remove the
heater hose and disconnect the
crankshaft position sensor finish
removing the pulley bulbs remove the
pulley
remove the 12 water pump retaining bolts
and remove the pumps from the vehicle as
you remove the water pump keep in mind
there may be some residual coolant in
the system be sure and capture this it's
very important to thoroughly clean the
gasket surface making sure that any old
gasket is removed be very cautious not
to damage the mounting surface if using
a silicone base type sealant only
lightly apply it to the gasket surface
area paying particular attention to the
bolt hole area using excessive sealant
can cause coolant system failure it's
not necessary but it's also a good idea
to apply a small amount of anti-seize to
the thread area install a water pump to
the engine block and torque the large
bolts 15 to 22 foot pounds in the small
boat 71 to 106 inch pounds
install the air conditioning support
bracket and the belt tensioner reconnect
the crankshaft position sensor and
heater hose
install the water pump pulley onto the
hub and hand tighten the retaining bolt
we will fully tighten them after putting
the drive belt in place install the
idler pulley loosely install the motor
mounting brackets and alternator into
locations
put the motor mount brackets and
alternator in place tighten all the
retaining bolts install the drive belt
be sure and check the tensioner making
sure it's within specifications always
inspect the drive belt making sure it's
not cracked or damaged in any way put
the drive belt in place fully tighten
water pump pulley bolts
install the pressure tank in the
location
and reattach the hood strut fill a
system with a 50/50 blend of coolant and
distilled water it's a good idea to test
your pressure cap a faulty pressure cap
can lead to an inefficient cooling
system if you do not have access to a
pressure tester these are available at
your local parts store with the repair
complete reattach the negative battery
cable
start the vehicle at the cabin heater on
high allow the engine to reach operating
temperature once the engine is reached
operating temperature check the coolant
system for any leaks at this point shut
the engine off allow to cool fully check
the pressure tank and top off the
coolant as needed